---
id: 236
title: The Pulp Fiction Live Blog
date: 2016-01-26 05:27:49 +0000
author: Johnathan Lyman
layout: post

permalink: "/2016/01/pulp-fiction-live-blog.html"
categories:
- Blog
---
<div class="kg-card-markdown"><p>Watch Pulp Fiction, they said. It’ll be riveting, they said.</p><p>I was told today that there’s no good reason for not seing Pulp Fiction if I saw Django Unchained or The Hateful Eight. Fine, I said to them. I’ll watch it tonight.</p><p>So here it is. I watch Pulp Fiction and write about it as the movie plays out. It’s 2 hours 33 minutes 59 seconds by Netflix’s watch.</p><p></p><p>Sweet. The classical diner scene. I forgot that guy was in this. What the hell is his name? That accent guy from Star Trek and that show about people’s ticks when they lie. I have no idea what he’s said. I need to turn up the volume.</p><p>“Garson, coffee!” heh. “Garson means boy.” heh heh. I think?</p><p>Restaurants don’t get robbed because there’s too many witnesses.</p><p>Yep. This is a Quentin Tarintino movie.</p><p>Let’s play Spot Spot the Director During His Cameo.</p><p>I think I remember starting to watch this movie, and gave up right about… here… the title credits.</p><p>Le Big Mac. Mayonaise fries. K.</p><p>I always enjoy a movie with Samuel L. Jackson. He’s got some greal emotion.</p><p>The foot massage logic is sound.</p><p>I Also always enjoy a movie with long single takes. This hallway shot is putting this movie on that list.</p><p>Staring at the backs of their heads makes me think they’re standing at urinals.</p><p>I keep lights in all my briefcases.</p><p>“Say what! Say what again!”</p><p>Don’t blink, Bruce!</p><p>That band-aid. Was he in The Matrix?</p><p>…</p><p>Sorry I checked out. Something about Bruce and Mr. Band-Aid and fancy coke. I don’t know.</p><p>…</p><p>I’m a half hour into this movie and have no idea what’s going on. Awesome.</p><p>…</p><p>So THAT’s where the lost Travolta meme came from. God he’s awkward looking.</p><p>Don’t be a rectangle composed of a dashed outline.</p><p>Slot cars. I remember those. I enjoyed those when I was a kid.</p><p>…</p><p>This is about where I fall asleep.</p><p>Yeah, it was that boring. Sometimes, I just can’t get into a movie. I fell asleep at this point and I guess I woke up to turn the TV off. About an hour later, I woke up again, thinking something from the movie snapped me awake but the TV was off. My PS4 running Netflix was still going and the movie was still running.</p><p></p></div>