---
id: 275
title: Emotional Decisions
date: 2017-01-04 18:50:00 +0000
author: Johnathan Lyman
layout: post

permalink: "/2017/01/emotional-decisions.html"
categories:
- Blog
---
<div class="kg-card-markdown"><p>Picking up <a href="https://johnathan.org/2017/01/happiness-problem.html">where I left off</a> a few days ago, I wanted to continue my stream on consciousness on emotions.</p><p>On the scale of what I find important in life, understanding emotions and how they play a part in what path your life takes is high up there. Don’t get me wrong, I act on emotion as much as the next person. I’d like to think I at least know what I’m getting myself into.</p><p>Finishing up chapter two of <a href="http://amzn.to/2hYbXqd"><em>The Subtle Art of Not Giving a Fuck</em></a>, a particular passage stood out to me. Before I mention it, I’d like to make it known that it’s not always the deepest or most powerful passages that stick with me for a long time. Sometimes it’s the simpler ones. The ones that invoke laughter or even just a simple head shake because it’s cheesy.</p><blockquote><p>But then there are those people who over identify with their emotions. Everything is justified for another other reason than they <em>felt</em> it. … Decision-making based on emotional intuition, without the aid of reason to keep it in line, pretty much always sucks. You know who bases their entire lives on their emotions? Three-year-old kids. And dogs. You know what else three-year-olds and dogs do? Shit on the carpet.</p></blockquote><p>Ain’t that the truth. Again, I’m not saying making decisions void of emotion is the right way to go. You’re not a robot, so don’t start acting like one. What differentiates alright emotion-based decisions and crazy decisions is <em>the aid of reason</em>.</p><p><strong>Example A:</strong> Johnny wants to rob a bank because he’s angry that they took $2 for an ATM withdrawal fee. That’ll sure show those capitalist clowns.</p><p>That sounds like a highly emotional decision not based on any kind of reason.</p><p><strong>Example B:</strong> Johnny met a girl. He likes her, a lot. He wants to impress her with his hobbies but showing her his rope and garbage bag collection seems like a bad idea. They stick to birdwatching, instead.</p><p>Much better.</p><p>Now that I’ve explained it to you like you’re five, let’s fire around some personal stories. I mention this being something that hits close to home. I’ve been the subject of more emotion-only-based decisions that I care to admit, and one thing I’ve learned from all this is not that they’re bad, but finding someway to stay grounded is of the utmost importance.</p><p>If you let your grounding slip away, your ability to keep your choices in check, so to speak, will slip away, too. There’s a very fine line between the best and the right decision, and usually one of those involves tossing reason out the window.</p><p>I don’t have any regrets, though. Sure it wasn’t the best decision at the time, but I also want to keep on the positive side.</p><p>I’m looking forward to Chapter 3 where we talk about how we’re not special… sounds like a doozy!</p></div>